---
layout: page
sidebar: right
breadcrumb: true
comments: true
image:
    thumb:  elk-thumb.jpg
title: "ELK Stack!"
teaser: "ELK Stack Rocks - Is the acronym for three open source projects:"
categories:
          - architectures
          - frameworks
tags:
          - architectures
          - frameworks
          - ELK
          - logstash
          - Elastic
          - Filebeat
---
- # Elasticsearch
- # Logstash
- # Kibana

# Elastic Search
Powerful, distributed, RESTful, JSON-based Search & Analytics engine

# Logstash
Server-side data processing pipeline that ingests data from multiple sources simultaneously, transforms it, and then sends it to a "stash".

# Kibana
Visualize data stored in Elastic with charts and graphs

#What we achieve from ELK?
Valuable business insights  - Yes
In current era, data is growing like anything & thus becoming difficult to read and analyzed the same data. For any applications, logs behaves as  support system which kind of keeps eye on application behavior. If an application is getting hundred thousands request per data, it would be very difficult to analyze all these request e.g. count of requests , number of successful/failed requests , peak time of requests etc. Also reading those huge log files is a mess. Here my friends can say why to read log files, keep you audit data in DB tables - believe that's perfect but one have to write complex SQL queries to fetch required data & believe me in most of application system, one will not get production database rights to do so. My other friend says use Business intelligence tools to achieve same- Yes absolutely true but my submission here is that via ELK stack objective is not to achieve high levels. ELK helps you achieve very simple objectives mentioned below

1. Push any type of application data to Elastic & view the same via kibana
2. View all access /error/application logs via Kibana. No need to access logs folders in production grade enviornment

Visit next article describing setup the ELK stack & get it working.
